Update CC docs (#14714)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/api-docs/system/internal-counters.mdx

## Client Count

This endpoint returns client activity information for a given billing

> period. The billing period is represented by the `start_time` and `end_time`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
period, which is represented by the `start_time` and `end_time` parameters.
```

> parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> There are a few things to be known while using this API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few things to keep in mind while using this API.
```

> - The activity information only accounts for activity that has happened for the

Reviewer: Missing a determiner. Consider adding an article in front of activity. 
The activity information only accounts for **the** activity that has happened...
or
The activity information only accounts for **an** activity that has happened...

Reviewer: Also 'that has happened' may be unnecessary in this sentence; it's basically implied within the sentence.

Author: Fixed.

latest contiguous months in the billing period. For example, if the billing
period is from Jan 2022 to June 2022, and say the activity subsystem in Vault

> was not capturing data for the months Jan to March for any reason, the response

Reviewer: "For any reason" may be another case where it's unnecessary to add. Will leave that up to you.

Author: Removed.

> will only include information for the months of May and June.

Reviewer: "the months of" can be removed here as well. "For May and June" works just fine.

- The response contains the total activity for the billing period and the
attributions of the total activity against specific components in Vault. This
helps in understanding the total activity better by knowing which components in

> Vault are leading to that top level activity count. First level of attribution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vault lead to that top level activity count. First level of attribution
```

breakdowns are by namespaces and months, under the `by_namespaces` and `months`

> JSON block respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JSON block, respectively.
```

```json
{
   "by_namespace":[],
   "months":[],
}
```

- `by_namespaces` breakdowns provide attributions of each namespace to the total

> activity count. These namespace attributions are further broken down by mount

Reviewer: Suggest to rewrite as:
Mount level attributions further break down these namespaces attributions, wherein information can be found on the attributions of each mount path within a given namespace to the overall activity of the namespace.

Author: Thanks. Done!

level attributions, wherein information can be found on attributions of each
mount path within a given namespace to the overall activity of the namespace.

```json
{
   "by_namespace":[
      {
         "namespace_id":"root",
         "namespace_path":"",
         "counts":{},
         "mounts":[
            {
               "path":"auth/up1/",
               "counts":{}
            },
            {
               "path":"auth/up2/",
               "counts":{}
            }
         ]
      }
   ]
}
```

- `months` breakdowns provide attributions of each month to the total activity

> count. These month level attributions are further broken down into namespace and mount

Reviewer: ```suggestion
count. These month-level attributions are further broken down into namespace and mount
```

level attributions for each month.

```json
{
   "months":[
      {
         "timestamp":"2021-05-01T00:00:00Z",
         "counts":{},
         "namespaces":[
            {
               "namespace_id":"root",
               "namespace_path":"",
               "counts":{},
               "mounts":[
                  {
                     "path":"auth/up2/",
                     "counts":{}
                  },
                  {
                     "path":"auth/up1/",
                     "counts":{}
                  }
               ]
            },
            {
               "namespace_id":"s07UR",
               "namespace_path":"ns1/",
               "counts":{},
               "mounts":[
                  {
                     "path":"auth/up1/",
                     "counts":{}
                  },
                  {
                     "path":"auth/up2/",
                     "counts":{}
                  }
               ]
            }
         ],
         "new_clients":{}
      }
   ],
}
```

> - Each entry in the `months` breakdown contains a `new_clients` block. Within a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each entry in the `months` breakdown contains a `new_clients` block. When a token is first used within a billing period, regardless of when it was created, that token is considered a new client for that billing period.
```

> - Each entry in the `months` breakdown contains a `new_clients` block. Within a

Author: > "When a token is first used within a month, regardless of when it was created, that token is considered a new client for the month"

☝️ would be incorrect. "first used within a billing period" is what we want to say. The current diff states it this way.

> This is because in this section you're talking about months. The newness in the billing period is also true but not relevant, right? All the activity within a billing period is "new" because the newness counts reset at the beginning of a billing period?

You are right about the newness counts getting reset at the beginning of a billing period. It is relevant in the context of where it is placed. The previous bullet explains the `months` block. This one is detailing on how to read the `new_clients` within the `months` in particular. So, this paragraph explains the behavior for the first month, and then talks about how the new clients will be computed for the subsequent months.

> billing period, when a token is first used, regardless of when it was created,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Fixed.

> that token is considered a new client for that billing period. This means that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 This means that
```

all the active clients in the first month of the billing period will be

> considered new clients for that billing period. These tokens could all be

Reviewer: Suggestions to rewrite:
While these tokens are generated and counted in the previous billing period, they are still considered new clients in the context of the given billing period.

Author: Done. Thanks!

> generated and counted in the previous billing period, but despite that they are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generated and counted in the previous billing period, but despite that, they are
```

still considered new clients in the context of the given billing period. For
each subsequent month in the same billing period, the tokens used in those

> respective months that were not used in any of the previous months of the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
respective months that were unused in any of the previous months of the same
```

billing period are considered new clients for that month. Hence, the computation
of new clients differs for each combination of `start_time` and `end_time`.

- The `new_clients` block within the `months` breakdown will also be further
broken down by namespaces and mounts for visibility into which components in
Vault lead to the new clients for each month.

```json
{
   "months":[
      {
         "new_clients":{
            "counts":{},
            "namespaces":[
               {
                  "namespace_id":"root",
                  "namespace_path":"",
                  "counts":{},
                  "mounts":[
                     {
                        "path":"auth/up2/",
                        "counts":{}
                     },
                     {
                        "path":"auth/up1/",
                        "counts":{}
                     }
                  ]
               }
            ]
         }
      }
   ],
}
```

> - The `distinct_entities` field name is deprecated since Vault 1.10. Refer to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `distinct_entities` field name has been deprecated since Vault 1.10. Refer to
```

Author: Fixed.

`entity_clients` field instead. The `distinct_entities` field is currently

> returned by the API for backwards compatibility and it may be removed in future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
returned by the API for backward compatibility and it may be removed in future.
```

> - The `non_entity_tokens` field name is deprecated since Vault 1.10. Refer to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `non_entity_tokens` field name has been deprecated since Vault 1.10. Refer to
```

> - The `non_entity_tokens` field name is deprecated since Vault 1.10. Refer to

Author: We will be returning the same number!

`non_entity_clients` field instead. The `non_entity_tokens` field is currently

> returned by the API for backwards compatibility and it may be removed in future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
returned by the API for backward compatibility and it may be removed in future.
```

- If the `end_date` supplied to the API is for the current month, the activity
information returned by this API will only be till the previous month. The
activity system is designed to process the accumulated activity only at the end

> of the month. Since the current month's information is not fully processed by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the month. Since the system does not fully process the current month's information, it will not be added to the API response.
```

Author: Fixed.

> the system it will not be added to the API response. However the accumulated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the system, it will not be added to the API response. However, the accumulated
```

> the system it will not be added to the API response. However the accumulated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, the accumulated
```

response can be viewed using the partial month API.

- The response includes the actual time period covered, which may not exactly

> match the query parameters due to the month granularity of data, or missing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
match the query parameters due to the month granularity of data or missing
```

Author: Fixed.

months in the requested time range.

> For more information on how clients map to these client IDs, and how clients are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on how clients map to these client IDs and how clients are
```

> counted, please visit the [client count](/docs/concepts/client-count) concepts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Fixed.

The response will include all child namespaces of the namespace in which the
request was made. If some namespace has subsequently been deleted, its path will

> be listed as "deleted namespace :ID:". Deleted namespaces are reported only for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be listed as "deleted namespace :ID:." Deleted namespaces are reported only for
```

## Client Count

This endpoint returns client activity information for a given billing
period. The billing period is represented by the `start_time` and `end_time`
parameters.

There are a few things to be known while using this API.

- The activity information only accounts for activity that has happened for the
latest contiguous months in the billing period. For example, if the billing
period is from Jan 2022 to June 2022, and say the activity subsystem in Vault
was not capturing data for the months Jan to March for any reason, the response
will only include information for the months of May and June.

> - The response contains the total activity for the billing period and the

Reviewer 2: The additional info in this PR is great, but it's awkward to have to refer back and forth between the text and the example, especially since the example is so huge.  It'd be nicer if before each paragraph that talks about a part of the response, you could include a little JSON snippet showing the relevant bit.

Author: Yep. After trying some rearranging, saw the redundancies again. Removed it after all.

generated and counted in the previous billing period, but despite that they are
still considered new clients in the context of the given billing period. For
each subsequent month in the same billing period, the tokens used in those
respective months that were not used in any of the previous months of the same
billing period are considered new clients for that month. Hence, the computation
of new clients differs for each combination of `start_time` and `end_time`.

- The `new_clients` block within the `months` breakdown will also be further
broken down by namespaces and mounts for visibility into which components in
Vault lead to the new clients for each month.

- The `distinct_entities` field name is deprecated since Vault 1.10. Refer to
`entity_clients` field instead. The `distinct_entities` field is currently
returned by the API for backwards compatibility and it may be removed in future.

- The `non_entity_tokens` field name is deprecated since Vault 1.10. Refer to
`non_entity_clients` field instead. The `non_entity_tokens` field is currently
returned by the API for backwards compatibility and it may be removed in future.

> - All occurrences of namespace breakdowns, mount level breakdowns and month

Author: Good thought. Done.

level breakdowns in the response are arranged in the decreasing order of their
activity. Entries with highest activity will be at the top.

- If the `end_date` supplied to the API is for the current month, the activity
information returned by this API will only be till the previous month. The
activity system is designed to process the accumulated activity only at the end
of the month. Since the current month's information is not fully processed by
the system it will not be added to the API response. However the accumulated
response can be viewed using the partial month API.

- The response includes the actual time period covered, which may not exactly
match the query parameters due to the month granularity of data, or missing
months in the requested time range.

For more information on how clients map to these client IDs, and how clients are
counted, please visit the [client count](/docs/concepts/client-count) concepts
page.

> A time period may be specified; otherwise it reports on a default reporting

Reviewer 2: This duplicates a lot of what precedes it.  You might wish to get rid of it, or maybe move it back to the top as a kind of summary.

Author: After trying some rearrangements, decided that its not worth it. Removed it.

## Partial Month Client Count

This endpoint returns the number of clients per namespace for the current month, as the sum of clients calculated from the use

> of active entities and non-entity tokens.

Reviewer 3: Should we use the new terminology here?
